I have the following assignment:



1. You are asked to complete one of the following two types of tasks:   a. Text classification (e.g., sentiment analysis, emotion detection, news classification, etc.)

   b. Token classification (e.g., NER, PoS Tagging, etc.)



2. The objectives of this assignment are:  a. to understand the fine-tuning process

  b. to perform hyperparameter tuning

  c. to evaluate model performance

  d. to compare several pre-trained language models



3. Select a dataset relevant to your task. You can use a dataset from another source or create your own. Describe the selected dataset:   a. dataset size

   b. number of classes (for text classification) or entity/token types (for token classification), etc.



4. Perform preprocessing, such as:   a. Tokenization using the tokenizer of the model to be fine-tuned

   b. Dividing the data into training, validation, and testing sets

   c. Handling imbalance (optional if data distribution is uneven).



5. Selecting a Pre-trained Language Model.   a. Select one or two models from the Hugging Face Model Hub (https://huggingface.co/models) for your experiment (BERT, IndoBERT, RoBERTa, XLM-RoBERTa, etc.).

   b. Ensure the selected model supports the languages ​​in your dataset.



6. To perform fine-tuning, you may implement one of the following approaches:   a. Full fine-tuning

   b. Efficient parameter fine-tuning with LoRA



7. Define and explore the hyperparameters you use and provide justification for each selected hyperparameter value, including:   a. Learning rate

   b. Batch size

   c. Number of epochs



8. If possible, visualize the results (confusion matrix, etc.)



9. Analyze your results by comparing the results of each experiment.

10. Upload the code and report to the GitHub repository. Include your GitHub link in your Classroom.

11. Grading Requirements   a. This project will be presented on Week #14 meeting (if possible), if not possible you are required to make a 5 minutes presentation video and submit the URL of the video along with your documentation of the project.

   b. Selection of an appropriate dataset

   c. Explanation of preprocessing and tokenization

   d. Hyperparameter tuning experiment

   e. Fine-tuning implementation

   f. Report and presentation

   g. Clean and documented code

   h. Final documentation can be submitted until the day of. final exam